---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Preparing for WODs Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-24
published: true
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

<h2>WOD 5.1: Variables and Data Types</h2>

The goal of this WOD is to replace all of the hard-coding in our HTML file with variables and to create a separate javascript file for the product data, which can be maintained on the side. Further details can be found from [Dr. Port’s GitHub repository](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/050.variables_data_types/experience-SmartPhoneProducts1_variables.html). <br>
When performing the WOD, I didn't have too difficult of a time following the instructions, although I do need to remember to take advantage of shortcuts that would make the coding process more efficient. I initially prepared by going through each of the instruction lines and trying to picture doing it in my head. I would write down possible codes as a solution. Then, I would watch the video on 1.5x speed and take notes of important pieces of code or processes that would make coding more efficient. For example, the WOD used control+f to replace the 1 with 2/3/4/5 for the rest of the sections, whereas I planned on completing this manually. This saved me a lot of time when completing the WOD. I try to complete the WOD immediately after watching the video so it is still fresh in my mind. This is very similar to how I executed my first few WODs. However, this time, I did not fully attempt the WOD first before filming. I filmed my first take, which had come out to around 9 minutes. <br>
The next time I do the WOD, I believe I should try to wait a while after watching the WOD walkthrough to see if I can remember the processes on my own and to use active recall. I could have also attempted it more on my own prior to filming. 
